are you one that loves to eat calamari
when you're out at a restaurant but
you're super intimidated to make it at
home well today I'm going to share with
you some of the rules in preparing
calamari first start at your fishmonger
or your fish shop and make sure that
when you purchase squid that it has a
very nice briny aroma it shouldn't be
fishy at all the squid shouldn't be
slimy and the flesh should be firm in
texture but not rubbery so the first
thing that I'm going to do is I'm going
to take the tentacles in the head away
from the body all you need to do is pull
the body away from the tentacles so
that's just like this here and the
innards should come out with it and now
part of the innards here is the the ink
sack of the squid and that's really
great at flavors risottos or pasta dough
but we're not going to use it today and
now to separate the tentacles from the
rest of the head you're going to cut in
between the tentacles and the eyes and
your knife should be able to slide right
through nice and gently we're going to
discard this whole thing the tentacles
now you want to cut away the long
tentacles these are the grasping
tentacles and there you have a beautiful
thing of tentacles and then for the
cavity or the mantle of the squid first
things first you need to remove the
cartilage which is inside and the
cartilage is also called a quill because
it resembles as you can see here a quill
or you know a pen or a feather so this
is tough cartilage it almost looks like
plastic you want to make sure to get rid
of this so now to remove the membrane on
the cavity of the squid here you're
going to pull away the flippers which
are these guys here and this is how the
squid steers itself in the water so all
you have to do is pull them away from
the cavity and the membrane that outer
membrane should come away with it
so now the last step is of course
rinsing the mantle getting rid of any
sand that might be in the cavity here
and now we're ready to cut the squid
into rings and make the most delicious
calamari which is a lot easier than you
think first what we have to do is cut
the tubes into rings so I have a little
bit of paper towel to dry off the
calamari and you need a very sharp knife
for this and you want to slice this into
anywhere from a quarter to a half inch
rings if you didn't want to fry your
calamari like I am today
you could certainly do so many different
things with this you could stuff the
cavity with a nice breadcrumb stuffing
and braise it in a little bit of tomato
sauce so today I'm using a very simple
seasoned flour mixture for the calamari
now it's all-purpose flour a little bit
of pepper coarse salt paprika and
cayenne but you could use anything in
this mix you could use a little bit of
old bay so just mix it together sift all
of your ingredients again I'm using
all-purpose flour but you could use rice
flour that would create a lighter
coating so this is mixed up nicely I
have a neutral flavored oil here in my
pot at 375 degrees so you want a high
temperature to fry your squid in now I'm
going to put in the tentacles here as
well and gently toss the calamari in
your seasoned flour mixture any residual
moisture will help the seasoned flour
mixture stick to the calamari and since
the tentacles are a little bit bigger
than the Rings I'm going to start with
them and they're going to go right into
the oil now whenever you're frying I
like to tell people to do this make sure
you don't overcrowd your pot because
what it does is it brings the
temperature of the oil down and the oil
will soak into your batter or your flour
mixture and you'll get a greasy calamari
so don't over
crowd make sure you are watching the
temperature and it's staying at around
375 degrees and these fry for about a
minute to a minute and a half so not a
long time at all so it's been about a
minute and a half and the calamari looks
great it's a light golden brown color
transfer to a wire rack as always when
I'm frying I like to transfer to a wire
rack instead of paper towels because I
find if you put things right on the
paper towels they start steaming on the
bottom and your batter or your coating
gets soft and soggy right when you come
out of the fryer a little bit of salt
and maybe some freshly ground pepper so
there you go guys get this right to the
table maybe with a little cocktail sauce
and lemon now you know how to make
calamari at home it's not so
intimidating you have the technique and
the recipe enjoy now if you have any
kitchen conundrums
seafood conundrums write in the comments
section below or reach out to me using
the hashtag kitchen conundrum bye guys
you